.TH EnergyPlus 1
.SH NAME
energyplus - whole building energy simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B energyplus
[\f[I]options\f[]] [\f[I]input-file\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
EnergyPlus is a whole building energy simulation program that engineers, architects, and
researchers use to model energy and water use in buildings. Modeling the performance of a
building with EnergyPlus enables building professionals to optimize the building design to
use less energy and water. Each version of EnergyPlus is tested extensively before
release.
.PP
EnergyPlus models heating, cooling, lighting, ventilation, other energy flows, and water
use. EnergyPlus includes many innovative simulation capabilities: time-steps less than an
hour, modular systems and plant integrated with heat balance-based zone simulation,
multizone air flow, thermal comfort, water use, natural ventilation, and photovoltaic
systems.
.SS Using EnergyPlus
.PP
The \f[I]input-file\f[] is an input definition file (IDF) or input macro file (IMF).
.PP
If \f[I]options\f[] are specified, but no \f[I]input-file\f[] is provided, the program
will look for 'in.idf' by default.
.PP
If no \f[I]options\f[] AND no \f[I]input-file\f[] are specified, EnergyPlus will default
to its old behavior (looking for 'Energy+.idd', 'in.idf', and 'in.epw' in the current
working directory and prefixing all outputs with 'eplus').
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-annual
Force annual simulation
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-output\-directory \f[I]ARG\f[]
Output directory path (default: current directory)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-design-day
Force design-day-only simulation
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help information
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-idd \f[I]ARG\f[]
Input data dictionary path (default: Energy+.idd in executable directory)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-jobs \f[I]ARG\f[]
Multi-thread with N threads; 1 thread with no arg.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-epmacro
Run EPMacro prior to simulation
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-output\-prefix \f[I]ARG\f[]
Prefix for output file names (default: eplus)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-readvars
Run ReadVarsESO after simulation
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-output\-suffix \f[I]ARG\f[]
Suffix style for output file names (default: L)
   L: Legacy (e.g., eplustbl.csv)
   C: Capital (e.g., eplusTable.csv)
   D: Dash (e.g., eplus-table.csv)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version information
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-weather \f[I]ARG\f[]
Weather file path (default: in.epw in current directory)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-expandobjects
Run ExpandObjects prior to simulation
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Using a custom IDD file:
energyplus -i custom.idd -w weather.epw input.idf
.SS Pre-processing using EPMacro and ExpandObjects:

energyplus -w weather.epw -m -x input.imf

.SS Forcing design-day only simulations:

energyplus -D input.idf