Input Changes version 23.1.0 to 23.2.0
=============

This file documents the structural changes on the input of EnergyPlus that could affect interfaces, etc.
This was previously an Excel workbook that made for very difficult version control, especially during busy times around code freezes.

Describe input change here

Use links like: [PR#9480](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/9480/)

# Object Change: Coil:Cooling:DX:CurveFit:Performance

Field 1 to 2 remain the same.

Field 3 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A2). It’s an optional field.

Field 4 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:Cooling:DX:SingleSpeed

Field 1 to 26 remain the same.

Field 27 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A12). It’s an optional field.

Field 28 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:Cooling:DX:MultiSpeed

Field 1 to 12 remain the same.

Field 13 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A11). It’s an optional field.

Field 14 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:Cooling:DX:VariableSpeed-

Field 1 to 14 remain the same.

Field 15 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A7). It’s an optional field.

Field 16 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:Cooling:DX:TwoStageWithHumidityControlMode-

Field 1 to 5 remain the same.

Field 6 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A5). It’s an optional field.

Field 7 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:Heating:DX:SingleSpeed-

Field 1 to 19 remain the same.

Field 20 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A11). It’s an optional field.

Field 21 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:Heating:DX:MultiSpeed

Field 1 to 7 remain the same.

Field 8 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A5). It’s an optional field.

Field 9 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:Heating:DX:VariableSpeed-

Field 1 to 13 remain the same.

Field 14 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A6). It’s an optional field.

Field 15 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:WaterHeating:AirToWaterHeatPump:Pumped-

Field 1 to 19 remain the same.

Field 20 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A9). It’s an optional field.

Field 21 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:WaterHeating:AirToWaterHeatPump:Wrapped

Field 1 to 12 remain the same.

Field 13 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A5). It’s an optional field.

Field 14 and onwards are the same.

# Object Change: Coil:WaterHeating:AirToWaterHeatPump:VariableSpeed-

Field 1 to 18 remain the same.

Field 19 is a new field named "Outdoor Temperature Dependent Crankcase Heater Capacity Curve Name" (labeled A5). It’s an optional field.

Field 20 and onwards are the same.
