Input Changes version 23.2.0 to 24.1.0
======================================

This file documents the structural changes on the input of EnergyPlus that could affect interfaces, etc.

# Object Changes: BASIC STRUCTURE

PR number, description of changes, etc.
Enough information that someone can build a transition tool around it.
Focus on the fields in order from 1 to N.
The alpha/numeric A/N numbers are not as important here.

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithA

# Object Change: AirloopHVAC:UnitarySystem
Field 39 (A23) No Load Supply Air Flow Rate Control Set To Low Speed is inserted. The remaining fields are shifted down. If the cooling or heating coil is Coil:*:DX:VariableSpeed the field is Yes, otherwise No.

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithB

# Object Change: ComfortViewFactorAngles
Field 2 (A2) Zone Name (zone_name) is deleted.
Remaining fields shift up one place.

[PR#10244](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/10244/)

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithD

# Object Change: ElectricEquipment and Lights
Field 6 (N2) field name changed from "Watts per Zone Floor Area" (watts_per_zone_floor_area) to "Watts per Floor Area" (watts_per_floor_area).

[PR#10244](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/10244/)

# Object Change: ElectricEquipment:ITE:AirCooled
Field 7 (N3) field name changed from "Watts per Zone Floor Area" (watts_per_zone_floor_area) to "Watts per Floor Area" (watts_per_floor_area).

[PR#10244](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/10244/)

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithF

# Object Change: GasEquipment, HotWaterEquipment, and SteamEquipment
Field 6 (N2) field name changed from "Power per Zone Floor Area" (power_per_zone_floor_area) to "Power per Floor Area" (power_per_floor_area).

[PR#10244](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/10244/)

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithH

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithI

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithJ

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithK

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithL

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithM

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithN

# Object Change: OtherEquipment
Field 7 (N2) field name changed from "Power per Zone Floor Area" (power_per_zone_floor_area) to "Power per Floor Area" (power_per_floor_area).

[PR#10244](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/10244/)

# Object Change: People
Field 13 (A7) Mean Radiant Temperature Calculation Type (mean_radiant_temperature_calculation_type)
\key ZoneAveraged is changed to EnclosureAveraged

[PR#10244](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/10244/)

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithQ

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithR

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithS

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithT

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithU

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithV

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithW

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithX

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithY

# Object Change: ObjectStartsWithZ

# Object Change: ZoneHVAC:PackagedTerminalAirConditioner
Field 10 (A7) No Load Supply Air Flow Rate Control Set To Low Speed is inserted. The remaining fields are shifted down. If the cooling is Coil:Cooling:DX:VariableSpeed the field is Yes, otherwise No.

# Object Change: ZoneHVAC:PackagedTerminalHeatPump
Field 10 (A7) No Load Supply Air Flow Rate Control Set To Low Speed is inserted. The remaining fields are shifted down. If the cooling or heating coil is Coil:*:DX:VariableSpeed the field is Yes, otherwise No.

# Object Change: ZoneHVAC:WaterToAirHeatPump
Field 10 (A7) No Load Supply Air Flow Rate Control Set To Low Speed is inserted. The remaining fields are shifted down. The value can be set to No.
