Input Changes version 22.1.0 to 22.2.0
=============

This file documents the structural changes on the input of EnergyPlus that could affect interfaces, etc.
This was previously an Excel workbook that made for very difficult version control, especially during busy times around code freezes.

# Modify Existing Object: SurfaceProperty:LocalEnvironment

Summary: The following three procedures complete the transition requirement for this feature:

         (1)  Get the child object name from `SurfaceProperty:LocalEnvironment` object in the input field 
              `Surrounding Surfaces Object Name`, Field #4(A4) and retrieve `SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces` 
              child object that matches object name. Then modify the `SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces` object as 
              described in step 1 below.
              
         (2)  Create new object `SurfaceProperty:GroundSurfaces` using values of the two removed fields 
              from `SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces` object as described in step 2 below.
         
         (3)  Add new field `Ground Surfaces Object Name` at the end of `SurfaceProperty:LocalEnvironment` object.      
              Fields F1-F5 (A1-A5) remain the same.
              Add new alpha field F6(A6).
              Enter the name of `SurfaceProperty:GroundSurfaces` new object created in step 2 in the new Field F6(A6).
         
         See pull request [#9409](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/9409) for more details.

         ## Step 1 Modify Existing Object: SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces

         Summary: Remove one numeric field and one alpha field from `SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces` object.             
        
         Fields F1-F3 remain the same.
         Fields F4-F5 will be removed. Remove Fields N2 and A3. 
         Fields F6 and higher remian the same but the numbering moves up as follows.
         Numeric Fields N3-N12 become N2-N11.
         Alpha Fields A4-A23 become A3-A22.

         Note: The removed fields (N2 and A3) values will be used to create a new object `SurfaceProperty:GroundSurfaces` 
               as descibed in step 2 below.
  
         ## Step 2 Create New Object: SurfaceProperty:GroundSurfaces
  
         Summary: Create a new object `SurfaceProperty:GroundSurfaces` using the values of the two fields removed from 
                  `SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces`. Name of the new object created will be entered in the new field
                   F6(A6) added in `SurfaceProperty:LocalEnvironment` existing object.

         Fields F1: Name (=> "Gnd" + SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces.Name)
         Fields F2: Ground Surface 1 Name (=> "Gnd" + SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces.Name + 1)
         Fields F3: Ground Surface 1 View Factor (=> SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces.GroundViewFactor, value from removed field N2 or F4)
         Fields F4: Ground Surface 1 Temperature Schedule Name (=> SurfaceProperty:SurroundingSurfaces.GroundTemperatureScheduleName, value from removed field A3, or F5)
  
         Note: Even when the two removed fields are blank, it is still necessary to create the new object with names (F1 and F2 fields) only 
               and the `Ground Surface 1 View Factor` and `Ground Surface 1 Temperature Schedule Name` fields could be either left blank or ignored.

# Object Change: OBJECT NAME HERE

Describe input change here

Use links to the PR like: [8807](https://github.com/NREL/EnergyPlus/pull/8985)